xnots(1)                  BSD General Commands Manual                 xnots(1)

NAME
     xnots -- A desktop sticky note program for Unix geeks.

SYNOPSIS
     xnots [-q] [dir [file]]

DESCRIPTION
     xnots  is  a  desktop sticky note system for the X window system and unix
     geeks.  xnots is designed so that all your sticky notes and  to-do  lists
     are text files in a certain directory (by default ~/.xnots).  The idea is
     that any unix geek should abhor typing  text  into  anything  EXCEPT  his
     favourite  editor. These files completely control the appearance and con-
     tent of the displayed sticky notes, and thus the average unix  geek  will
     never  have to use the mouse or (god forbid) navigate using menus to con-
     trol xnots.

     On startup xnots first reads options from the  file  ~/.xnotsrc,  or  the
     file  file  supplied  on  the  command  line.  Then  xnots reads the file
     .xnotsinfo in the directory ~/.xnots (or the directory  dir  supplied  on
     the  command  line).  This  file  contains the position / sizes of sticky
     notes saved from previous sessions. Finally,  xnots  displays  all  files
     found  in  the  directory  ~/.xnots (or the directory dir supplied on the
     command line) as sticky notes.

     xnots then watches this directory for changes so  that  changes  made  to
     files in this directory are immediately reflected in the displayed sticky
     notes. To create new notes, simply create a file in  this  directory.  To
     delete notes, either use your window manager to close them, or delete the
     corresponding note file. And to modify the content or  appearance  of  an
     existing  note,  simply  edit  the  corresponding  text  file  with  your
     favourite text editor.

     If you move / resize any sticky note, xnots will periodically  save  this
     information  in the file .xnotsinfo, so that the notes can be restored to
     the same positions the next time xnots is started. This file  can  safely
     be edited (or removed) by the user when xnots is not running (if xnots is
     running, then your changes might be lost when it exits).  Finally,  xnots
     will  exit  only  when  the  watched  directory is deleted / moved, or it
     receives a TERM signal (e.g. via `pkill -n xnots').

     NOTE: Files in the watched directory beginning with a period,  or  ending
     with `~' or `.swp' are ignored.

OPTIONS
     -q    Do not display anything on stdout (except for X errors).

     dir   Directory  to  look for note files in (default ~/xnots).  This must
           be the first argument (except possibly for the -q option).

     file  File to read default note options from (default ~/.xnotsrc).   This
           must appear immediately after the dir option.

NOTE FILE SYNTAX
     The typical note file looks like this

         * background    : #204040
         * geometry      : 150x150-0+0

         Super important memo goes here. <b>This will be bold</b>

     The first few lines that have a `*' in the first collumn are options that
     modify the appearance of the sticky note.  Once  a  (non-blank)  line  is
     encountered  without  a `*' in the first column, that line and everything
     following is treated as the text of the sticky note.

     The text of the sticky note can contain simple markup tags  as  supported
     by  the pango library. See the file pango-Text-Attributes.html that comes
     with the pango documentation for a list and  description  of  all  markup
     tags  supported.  Keep in mind that even minor errors in your markup will
     cause the pango library to complain verbosely, and not render any  markup
     at  all for your note. You can disable the use of markup in the note text
     using the useMarkup option.

     The following options can be used  to  control  the  appearance  of  your
     sticky   notes.  If  these  options  appear  in  the  configuration  file
     ~/.xnotsrc then they apply to all notes. Otherwise they will  only  apply
     to the current note.

     display dpy
           X display to connect to (this only works from the ~/.xnotsrc file)

     geometry geom
           The  geometry of the note as understood by the XParseGeometry(3X11)
           function.  xnots checks to see if the  geometry  of  this  note  is
           saved  in  the file .xnotsinfo.  If found, then this is used as the
           geometry of the note. If not, then geom is used as the geometry  of
           the note.

           If the user resizes / moves the note, then the new geometry will be
           saved in the file .xnotsinfo, so that the note can be  restored  to
           exactly  the same position in future sessions. If you want the pre-
           viously stored geometry information in .xnotsinfo  to  be  ignored,
           then just delete the appropriate entry in .xnotsinfo.

           NOTE:  The  geometry of a note is stored along with the filename of
           the note. If the note file is deleted, then  the  geometry  of  the
           note  is  NOT  forgotten. This is useful if you later create a note
           with the same filename, as it will appear on the desktop  with  the
           same geometry.

     foreground color
           The color of the note text.

     background color
           The color of the note background.

     alpha degree
           The transparency degree of the note. 0 is fully transparent, 255 is
           completely opaque. The  note  is  made  `root-transparent'  and  is
           tinted  to  the color specified by the background option with alpha
           degree.

           The note can only be made root-transparent if you used an  esetroot
           compatible  program  to  set  the  desktop  wallpaper. For instance
           feh(1) or fvwm-root(1) with the -r option will do  this.  See  also
           the  comments  about transparency in the man page of mrxvt(1) since
           the transparency code is almost identical to  mrxvt's  transparency
           code.

     bypassWM [bool]
           If  bool is true, then the OverrideRedirect flag is set when creat-
           ing note windows. This means that window managers  will  completely
           ignore  this  window  (not decorate it, not pass it focus put it in
           task bars or pagers). Also the X  server  generally  preserves  the
           contents of such windows, when you expose parts or all of your note
           window, you'll find that your sticky notes take less time to redraw
           themselves.

           When  this option is unset, xnots tries very hard to tell your win-
           dow manager to make your sticky notes skip your pager / taskbar and
           appear  undecorated  on all desktops. However some window managers,
           like fvwm(1), do not honor all such requests. If you use  fvwm  for
           instance, and your sticky notes to not have window decorations then
           you can either set the bypassWM option, or put the  following  line
           in your fvwm configuration file:

               Style XNots NoTitle, !Borders, WindowListSkip

     onTop bool
           If true your sticky notes are above other windows, instead of being
           below them.

     title title
           The window of your note window

     useMarkup bool
           If true, basic markup tags are accepted in the note text.  See  the
           file  pango-Text-Attributes.html that comes with the pango documen-
           tation for a list and description of all markup tags supported.

     font fontname
           The name of the Xft font to be used  to  render  your  sticky  note
           text.

     size size
           The  point  size  of the font to be used to render your sticky note
           text.

     leftMargin margin
           Left margin of note text

     rightMargin margin
           Right margin of note text

     topMargin margin
           Top margin of note text

     botMargin margin
           This works differently from the other margins.  If  non-zero,  then
           the  height  of  the  note  window is adjusted so that the note has
           exactly the specified margin at the bottom. If 0, then  the  height
           of  the  sticky note window is exactly as specified by the geometry
           option.

     indent width
           Set's the indentation of the first line of each paragraph.  Hanging
           indents  can  be  produced  by setting this to a negative value. In
           this case the first tab stop will be exactly equal  to  the  (abso-
           lute)  value  of  the  indent, so that the first tab character will
           skip the hanging indent.

     roundRadius radius
           If you want your note to have rounded corners, then set this option
           to the radius of the corners and xnots will use the shape extension
           to shape the note window to be a rounded rectangle.  If  set  to  0
           your notes will be regular rectangles.

EXAMPLES
     See  the files in the examples/ subdirectory of the xnots source archive.

NOTES
     - You need a Linux kernel with inotify compiled with inotify support  for
       xnots  to  work.  I think inotify is included by default with the Linux
       2.6.13 upward, but I recommend using 2.6.16 and up.

     - Sometimes xnots does not detect when the watched directory  is  deleted
       (but it generally detects when the watched directory is moved).

FILES
     ~/.xnotsrc
           Default note options are read from this file on startup.

     ~/.xnots
           Default directory to look for sticky note files.

     .xnotsinfo
           File where all note geometries are stored.

BUGS
     -  Deleting  options  from a displayed note does not reset to the default
       value. Maybe this is how it should be :)
     - The useMarkup and bypassWM  options  work  badly  when  changed  for  a
       already displayed note.

SEE ALSO
     The  pango text markup attributes pango-Text-Attributes.html, inotify(7).

                           http://xnots.sourceforge.net

AUTHOR
     Gautam Iyer <gi1242@users.sourceforge.net>

X Version 11                   January 10, 2006                   X Version 11
